# History-of-Taj-Mahal
The Taj Mahal of Agra is one of the Seven Wonders of the World, for reasons more than just looking spectacular. It's the history of Taj Mahal that gives a soul to the magnificence: a soul that is filled with love, loss, remorse, and love again. Because if it had not been for love, the world could have been conned of a fine example after which people bottom part their relationships. One of how deeply a man cherished his wife, that even after she remained but a memory, he made sure this memory would never fade. This man was the Mughal Chief Shah Jahan, who acquired been head-over-heels in love with Mumtaz Mahal, his dear wife. She was a Muslim Persian queen (her name Arjumand Banu Begum before marriage) and he was the kid of the Mughal Chief Jehangir and grandson of Akbar the Great. This was at the time of 14 that this individual met Mumtaz and dropped in love with her. Five years later in the year 1612, they got married. Mumtaz Mahal, an inseparable friend of Shah Jahan, passed away in 1631, while providing birth to their fourteenth child. It had been in the memory of his favorite wife that Shah Jahan built an impressive monument as a tribute to her, which we today known as the "Taj Mahal". The construction of Taj Mahal started in the year 1631. Masons, stonecutters, inlayers, carvers, painters, calligraphers, dome-builders and other artists were requisitioned from the whole of the contr?le and also from Central Asia and Iran, and it was a little while until approximately twenty-two years to generate what we see today. An ultimate example of love, it used the services of twenty-two, 000 laborers and you, 000 elephants. The batiment was built totally away of white marble, which was brought in from all over India and central Asia. After an expenditure of approximately thirty-two million rupees, Taj Mahal was finally completed in the year 1653. It absolutely was soon after the finalization of Taj Mahal that Shah Jahan was deposed by his own kid Aurangzeb and was put under house arrest at local Agra Fort. Shah Jahan, himself also, is situated entombed in this mausoleum along with his better half. Moving further down the history, it was at the finish of the 19th century that Uk Viceroy Lord Curzon purchased a sweeping restoration job, which was designed in 1908, as a strategy to restore what was lost through the Indian rebellion of 1857: Taj being blemished by British members of the military and government officials who also deprived the batiment of its immaculate beauty by chiseling out important stones and lapis lazuli from its walls. Likewise, the British style grass lawns that we see today adding on to the beauty of Taj were remodeled about the same time. Despite prevailing controversies, former and present threats from Indo-Pak war and environmental pollution, this epitome of love continuous to glow and attract people from worldwide
